add Hooks section to docs (#65)
pitch-io/uix: docs/hooks.md

# Hooks

> UIx wraps existing React hooks to cut some corners and provide a more idiomatic interafce for Clojure. `uix.core` exposes only default React hooks, named against their JS counterparts but in kebab-case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
UIx wraps existing React hooks to cut some corners and provide a more idiomatic interface for Clojure. `uix.core` exposes only default React hooks, named against their JS counterparts but in kebab-case.
```

> UIx wraps existing React hooks to cut some corners and provide a more idiomatic interafce for Clojure. `uix.core` exposes only default React hooks, named against their JS counterparts but in kebab-case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
UIx wraps existing React hooks to cut some corners and provide a more idiomatic interafce for Clojure. `uix.core` exposes only the default React hooks, named after their JS counterparts but in kebab-case.
```

There are multiple differences from pure React though.

## Dependency array

> Some hooks accept an array of dependencies as the second argument. While in pure React it has to be an array literal `#js []`, in UIx as Clojure library the deps are a vector literal `[]`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some hooks accept an array of dependencies as the second argument. While in pure React it has to be an array literal `#js []`, in UIx, being a Clojure library, it has to be a vector literal `[]`.
```

```clojure
(uix/use-effect
  (fn [] (prn x))
  [x])
```

## How depedencies are compared?

> When the same depency has a different value between component updates, a hook will re-run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the same dependency has a different value between component updates, a hook will re-run.
```

```clojure
;; 1st update
(uix/use-effect
  (fn [] (prn x)) ;; prn 1
  [x]) ;; x = 1

;; 2nd update
(uix/use-effect
  (fn [] (prn x))
  [x]) ;; x = 1, didn't change, do nothing

;; 3rd update
(uix/use-effect
  (fn [] (prn x)) ;; prn 2
  [x]) ;; x = 2, `x` has changed, re-run the hook
```

That works as expected for primitive values like numbers and strings, but what about Clojure's maps and vectors that can be compared by value `(= {:x 1} {:x 1}) ;; true`?

> Two maps equal by value but with different identity are considered to be not equal when React compares dependencies. This is happening because React is JS library that is not aware of Clojure's equality algorithm, instead React is comparing values by identity `===` or `Object.is`. Thus it's important to think about what type of values you are passing as dependencies of a hook. It applies to JS as well, objects and arrays are still compared by reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Two maps equal by value but with different identity are considered to be not equal when React compares dependencies. This is happening because React is a JS library that is not aware of Clojure's equality algorithm, instead React is comparing values by identity `===` or `Object.is`. Thus it's important to think about what type of values you are passing as dependencies of a hook. It applies to JS as well, objects and arrays are still compared by reference.
```

```clojure
;; 1st update
(let [a {:x 1}]
  (uix/use-effect
    (fn [] (prn a)) ;; executed
    [a])))

;; 2nd update
(let [a {:x 1}]
  (uix/use-effect
    (fn [] (prn a)) ;; executed as well, since `a` is a new map that was created during render
    [a])))

;; 3rd update
(let [a {:x 1}]
  (uix/use-effect
    (fn [] (prn a)) ;; same, still executed for the same reason
    [a])))
```

### What about other Clojure's primitives?

> In addition to JavaScript's primitive types like `Number` or `String`, ClojureScript has keywords, symbols and UUIDs that are represented as JS objects when compiled into JS and thus fall into the same trap with equality check. To make things simpler UIx automatically stringifies those three types when passed in dependency vector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to JavaScript's primitive types like `Number` or `String`, ClojureScript has keywords, symbols and UUIDs that are represented as JS objects when compiled into JS and thus fall into the same trap with equality check. To make things simpler UIx automatically stringifies those three types when passed in the dependency vector.
```

## Return value in effect hooks

> The _setup_ function that is passed into one of effect hooks requires the return value to be either a function (that will be called on _cleanup_) or `js/undefined`. Otherwise React will throw an error saying that it got something else.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The _setup_ function, that is passed into one of the effect hooks, requires the return value to be either a function (that will be called on _cleanup_) or `js/undefined`. Otherwise React will throw an error saying that it got something else.
```

```clojure
(react/useEffect
  (fn []
    (when false (prn :x))
    js/undefined)
  #js [])
```

In UIx this incompatibility is handled in the library. However keep in mind, that since in Clojure the last expression is always returned implicitly, you still have to think about the return value and make sure that unexpected values are not returned from the _setup_ function.

```clojure
(uix/use-effect
  (fn []
    (when false (prn :x))) ;; `nil` is handled, doesn't throw
  [])

(uix/use-effect
  (fn []
    (map inc [1 2 3])) ;; returns a collection and thus React throws
  [])
```

## Differences for `use-callback` and `use-memo` hooks

In pure React both `use-callback` and `use-memo` hooks accept dependency array as an optional argument. But since the purpose of both hooks is memoization, it doesn't make sense to call them without any dependencies. Not providing deps effectively means there's no memoization applied. In JavaScript this is enforced by ESLint rule, in UIx on the other hand we just removed single-arity method for those hooks, so that it's impossible to not pass deps.

## `use-ref` hook

> `use-ref` hook returns an object that has a stable identity through thought lifecycle of a component and allows storing random values inside of it. Basically a ref is a mutable container bound to an instance of a component. This aligns pretty well with Clojure's `ref` types, namely `Atom` which is commonly used as a mutable container for immutable values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `use-ref` hook returns an object that has a stable identity throughout the lifecycle of a component and allows storing random values inside of it. Basically a ref is a mutable container bound to an instance of a component. This aligns pretty well with Clojure's `ref` types, namely `Atom` which is commonly used as a mutable container for immutable values.
```

> While in pure React `useRef` return an object with `current` property, in UIx `use-ref` returns the same object, but with an API identical to `Atom`. The ref can be dereferenced `@` to read its current value, and updated via `reset!` or `swap!` to set a new value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While in pure React `useRef` returns an object with `current` property, in UIx `use-ref` returns the same object, but with an API identical to `Atom`. The ref can be dereferenced `@` to read its current value, and updated via `reset!` or `swap!` to set a new value.
```

> While in pure React `useRef` returns an object with `current` property, in UIx `use-ref` returns the same object, but with an API identical to `Atom`. The ref can be dereferenced `@` to read its current value, and updated via `reset!` or `swap!` to set a new value.

Author: Good point!

> While in pure React `useRef` returns an object with `current` property, in UIx `use-ref` returns the same object, but with an API identical to `Atom`. The ref can be dereferenced `@` to read its current value, and updated via `reset!` or `swap!` to set a new value.

Author: @benrodenhaeuser @jo-sm added a not on that

Now in ClojureScript, when an expression returns _nothing_, it actually returns `nil`, which is compiled into `null` in JS. Since `null` is neither a function, nor `undefined`, React will throw as well.

```clojure
(react/useEffect
  (fn []
    (when false (prn :x))) ;; returns `nil` and thus React throws
  #js [])
```

Thus when using React hooks directly you'd have to explicitly return `js/undefined` in such cases.

```clojure
(react/useEffect
  (fn []
    (when false (prn :x))
    js/undefined)
  #js [])
```

This complication is also handled by UIx and if the return value is `nil` it will automatically return `js/undefined`. However keep in mind that since in Clojure the last expression is always returned implicitly, you still have to think about the return value and make sure that unexpected values are not returned from the _setup_ function.

In other words, make sure you ultimately only return `nil` or a function when using the UIx hooks, otherwise React will throw an error.

```clojure
(uix/use-effect
  (fn []
    (when false (prn :x))) ;; `nil` is handled, doesn't throw
  [])

(uix/use-effect
  (fn []
    (map inc [1 2 3])) ;; returns a collection and thus React throws

>   [])

Reviewer 3: What's the best way to avoid such errors? Explicitly return nil? Would be great to have example of good here

Reviewer 2: @roman01la I don't think this is correct. From looking at [the code](https://github.com/pitch-io/uix/blob/master/core/src/uix/hooks/alpha.cljs#L30) I get that whatever you return from the hook call UIx will always return `js/undefined` unless it's a function, which in that case will return the function. If that's correct then maybe this section needs to be reconsidered

Author: @g7s You are right!

Author: @g7s Updated this section. That was a good catch, thanks 🙏

## Return value in effect hooks

The _setup_ function, that is passed into one of the effect hooks, requires the return value to be either a function (that will be called on _cleanup_) or `js/undefined`. Otherwise React will throw an error saying that it got something else.

```clojure
(react/useEffect
  (fn []
    :keyword) ;; returning `:keyword` here will throw
  #js [])
```

Now in ClojureScript, when an expression returns _nothing_, it actually returns `nil`, which is compiled into `null` in JS. Since `null` is neither a function, nor `undefined`, React will throw as well.

```clojure
(react/useEffect
  (fn []
    (when false (prn :x))) ;; returns `nil` and thus React throws
  #js [])
```

Thus when using React hooks directly you'd have to explicitly return `js/undefined` in such cases.

```clojure
(react/useEffect
  (fn []
    (when false (prn :x))
    js/undefined)
  #js [])
```

> This complication is also handled by UIx and if the return value is not a function it will automatically return `js/undefined`. However keep in mind that since in Clojure the last expression is always returned implicitly, you still have to make sure that an expression doesn't return a function accidentally, because it's going to be executed in _cleanup_ phase of an effect hook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This complication is also handled by UIx and if the return value is not a function it will automatically return `js/undefined`. However keep in mind that, since in Clojure the last expression is always returned implicitly, you still have to make sure the hook doesn't return a function accidentally, because it's going to be executed in its _cleanup_ phase.
```
